living on a boat might sound romantic at
first
clean ocean breeze shining sun peaceful
quiet
hey sign me up but be ready to say
goodbye to most of your favorite things
small boats have very little space and
life at sea is not for pack rats or
claustrophobes
you'll probably bump your head a lot at
first especially if you're tall
when camping you can take at least a
walk to get away from it all
on a boat it can feel like you're a
caged rat
so hopefully after a few years at sea
you can get your dream yacht
a stroll on that massive deck will give
you plenty of exercise and me time
some can be as long as a football field
but no matter how cool your vessel is
the internet can be an issue anywhere
when sailing
a sell signal and wi-fi connection are
an option for those who plan to stay
within about five miles of shore
but if you want to venture out in the
sea then whatever ship you're on
no calls no texts no social media
none of it it can feel lonely but
liberating too
before you start living on a boat you
probably want to take some sailing
lessons
those usually cost about 24 bucks an
hour and experts recommend
setting up about 50 hours of practice
just to get the basics
mastering the skill will take over a
year and well you have the rest of your
life
get ready for a lot of work boats are
demanding
there's always something to fix or clean
unless you're willing to hire a crew of
mechanics and cleaners
though tidying up looks like a relief
after cleaning the whole house
even the biggest boats are smaller than
a typical apartment
when it comes to personal hygiene you'll
face the problem of not having
any running water the bathroom called
the head on a boat
includes only a tiny shower cabin that's
barely enough to fit an adult
and forget about having the full range
of personal care items you're used to
the bathroom counter is only for
essentials though
if you're on something like the world's
biggest 600 foot long yacht
your bathroom will look like any other
bathroom in a house probably even nicer
double sink huge tub and walk-in shower
lighted mirror and plenty of counter
space
now about that toilet it'll take some
getting used to
first thing you'll notice it's not full
of water looks a lot like the loo on an
airplane doesn't it
same rule works for both no water means
no splashing out when things get bumpy
you're obviously not connected to any
sewage so
toilets on regular sailboats flush
manually
meaning you pump the water from an
onboard storage tank
it comes up and rinses the bowl out once
you've saved enough money to get a yacht
you'll probably have an electric flush
it fills the toilet with seawater so
where does the stuff go after that you
just can't flush it into the ocean
like with planes it'll go to an onboard
holding tank
and you have to have that emptied and
disposed of by pros when you're done
oh and definitely use biodegradable
toilet paper
it'll save you from nasty expensive
clogs
no running water makes it challenging to
cook too
rule number one stock up on plenty of
fresh water
bigger luxury yachts have water storages
with heaters that can hold up to 200
gallons
that's enough for a month of comfortable
living one more problem with cooking is
no
fridge you're used to you'll have to
make do with a smaller version
most of them top loading squeeze in
everything you've stocked until the next
time you dock at a marina
if not you'll be living on fresh fish
for longer than you'd like
one downside of staying stocked up in
between dockings
is insects take the paper labels off
cans if you don't want
cockroaches to spread also moisture
especially in a compact space
is bacteria and molds best friend so
fresh food goes off way faster on a boat
than it does in a house
but if you live on a luxurious yacht i
mean you get it
looks like a house kitchen high ceilings
all the amenities
plenty of cabinets and storage a large
dining area
you might even hire a private chef to
keep you fed like royalty
now if you get seasickness often think
of the storms you might face
the atlantic averages 10 hurricanes a
year so
no matter if your boat is small or if
it's a big fancy yacht
make sure you have all the safety
equipment you need for storms
a tip from professional mariners is to
keep your eye on the horizon during
rough waves
it's the only stationary thing around
you so it'll help reset your balance
if that doesn't help close your eyes
it'll keep your brain from getting
confused by mixed signals
an eye mask can be handy too if nothing
else works
head to the rail and feed the fishes
okay all of that is for when you're
first starting out
but what if you lived your whole life
like this on a boat people who spend
their entire life at sea can develop
immunity to seasickness
your body's incredible balance system
gets stronger you'll probably lose
weight
but build muscle tone one
there won't be a fast food restaurant
right around the corner and forget about
food delivery services
your diet will probably be a lot of fish
and canned foods
not so much of the processed stuff two
you'll be doing more physical labor if
you're on a sailboat
well you'll be setting sails anchoring
things down
packing supplies even just walking on
deck with all the waves will make your
leg muscles stronger
and get ready to scrub barnacles off the
hull at least once a month
or pay someone to do it your skin will
get rougher because of the constant wind
it'll probably get used to the scorching
sun by producing more
in melanin that's the pigment that makes
your skin tan spf
is recommended of course but it might be
a luxury downside
if your cabin is too small you might
have serious back problems
with with all that ducking living aboard
can save you some money
especially if you're good at maintaining
the boat yourself instead of hiring pros
your bills are significantly smaller
than the ones you're used to
back on land the biggest cash you'll
spend is when you're docked at the
marina
yes no matter how much you love life at
sea
you'll still depend on services and
supplies on land
unless humanity all gets on board the
idea of the boat life
then maybe we'll have floating grocery
stores hospitals schools
you name it so basically living on a
boat
is kind of like living in a tent only
you're surrounded by water instead of
trees
no matter if you live on a tiny boat or
a luxurious yacht
you can enjoy breathtaking sunsets and
countless stars
every single night unless there's a
storm the moon appears closer than ever
you'll have a chance to see dolphins
leaping out of the water
birds flying above you'll feel closer
than ever to nature
you can take your sailing house to any
isolated location
whenever you want to get away from it
all ah what a dream